---
title: CAA Record Extensions for Account URI and ACME Method Binding
abbrev: ACME-CAA
docname: draft-ietf-acme-caa-latest
date: 2017-06-30
category: std

ipr: trust200902
area: General
workgroup: ACME Working Group
keyword: Internet-Draft

stand_alone: yes
pi: [toc, sortrefs, symrefs]

author:
  -
    ins: H. Landau
    name: Hugo Landau
    email: hlandau@devever.net

normative:
  RFC2119:
  RFC3986:
  RFC6844:
  I-D.ietf-acme-acme:

informative:
  BR:
    title: Baseline Requirements Certificate Policy for the Issuance and Management of Publicly-Trusted Certificates
    author:
      org: CA/Browser Forum
    date: 2017
    url: https://www.cabforum.org/documents.html


--- abstract

The CAA DNS record allows a domain to communicate issuance policy to CAs, but
only allows a domain to define policy with CA-level granularity. However, the
CAA specification also provides facilities for extension to admit more
granular, CA-specific policy. This specification defines two such parameters,
one allowing specific accounts of a CA to be identified by URI and one allowing
specific methods of domain control validation as defined by the ACME protocol
to be required.

--- middle

Introduction
============

This specification defines two parameters for the "issue" and "issuewild"
properties of the Certification Authority Authorization (CAA) DNS resource
record {{RFC6844}}. The first, "account-uri", allows authorization conferred by
a CAA policy to be restricted to specific accounts of a CA, which are
identified by URIs. The second, "validation-methods", allows the set of validation
methods supported for a CA to validate domain control to be limited to a subset
of the full set of methods which it supports.

Terminology
===========

In this document, the key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL
NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" are to be
interpreted as described in BCP 14, RFC 2119 {{RFC2119}} and indicate
requirement levels for compliant ACME-CAA implementations.

Extensions to the CAA Record: account-uri Parameter
===================================================

A CAA parameter "account-uri" is defined for the "issue" and "issuewild"
properties defined by {{RFC6844}}. The value of this parameter, if specified,
MUST be a URI {{RFC3986}} identifying a specific CA account.

"CA account" means an object maintained by a specific CA representing a
specific entity, or group of related entities, which may request the issuance
of certificates.

The presence of this parameter constrains the property to which it is attached.
Where a CAA property has an "account-uri" parameter, a CA MUST NOT consider
that property to authorize issuance in the context of a given certificate
issuance request unless the CA recognises the URI specified as identifying the
account making that request.

If a certificate issuance request is made to a CA such that no account URI is
available, because the request is made in the absence of any account or the
account has no URI assigned to it, a CA MUST NOT consider any property having
an "account-uri" parameter as authorizing issuance.

If a CA finds multiple CAA records pertaining to it (i.e., having property
"issue" or "issuewild" as applicable and a domain that the CA recognises as its
own) with different "account-uri" parameters, the CA MUST NOT consider the CAA
record set to authorize issuance unless at least one of the specified account
URIs identifies the account of the CA by which issuance is requested. A
property without an "account-uri" parameter matches any account. A property
with an invalid or unrecognised "account-uri" parameter is unsatisfiable. A
property with multiple "account-uri" parameters is unsatisfiable.

The presence of an "account-uri" parameter does not replace or supercede the
need to validate the domain name specified in an "issue" or "issuewild" record
in the manner described in the CAA specification. CAs MUST still perform such
validation. For example, a CAA property which specifies a domain name
belonging to CA X and an account URI identifying an account at CA Y is
unsatisfiable.

Use with ACME
-------------

An ACME {{I-D.ietf-acme-acme}} account object MAY be identified by setting the
"account-uri" parameter to the URI of the ACME account object.

Implementations of this specification which also implement ACME MUST recognise
such URIs.

Use without ACME
----------------

The "account-uri" specification provides a general mechanism to identify
entities which may request certificate issuance via URIs. The use of specific
kinds of URI may be specified in future RFCs, and CAs not implementing ACME MAY
assign and recognise their own URIs arbitrarily.

Extensions to the CAA Record: validation-methods Parameter
==========================================================

A CAA parameter "validation-methods" is also defined for the "issue" and
"issuewild" properties. The value of this parameter, if specified, MUST be a
comma-separated list of tokens specifying validation methods.  These tokens
MUST be drawn from the IANA registry of identifier validation methods.  For
validation methods based on the ACME challenge/response framework, the token
placed in this field MUST be the ACME challenge type (e.g., "http-01").

The presence of this parameter constrains the property to which it is attached.
A CA MUST only consider a property with the "validation-methods" parameter to
authorize issuance where the name of the validation method being used is one of
the names listed in the comma-separated list.  

When a CA encounters a "validation-methods" parameter that constraints its
issuance for a domain, it MUST NOT offer challenges for that domain with types
that are not listed in the "validation-methods" parameter.  This avoids
conflict between the requirements of this document and the ACME semantic that
completing any challenge is sufficient to obtain authorization.

A domain holder may wish to authorize CAs to use validation methods for which
there is no registered identifier.  The special method value "vendor" is
defined for this purpose.

Security Considerations
=======================

This specification describes an extension to the CAA record specification
increasing the granularity at which CAA policy can be expressed. This allows
the set of entities capable of successfully requesting issuance of certificates
for a given domain to be restricted beyond that which would otherwise be
possible, while still allowing issuance for specific accounts of a CA. This
improves the security of issuance for domains which choose to employ it, when
combined with a CA which implements this specification.

Limited to CAs Processing CAA Records
-------------------------------------

All of the security considerations of the CAA specification are inherited by
this document. This specification merely enables a domain with an existing
relationship with a CA to further constrain that CA in its issuance practices,
where that CA implements this specification. In particular, it provides no
additional security above that provided by use of the unextended CAA
specification alone as concerns matters relating to any other CA. The capacity
of any other CA to issue certificates for the given domain is completely
unchanged.

As such, a domain which via CAA records authorizes only CAs adopting this
specification, and which constrains its policy by means of this specification,
remains vulnerable to unauthorized issuance by CAs which do not honour CAA
records, or which honour them only on an advisory basis.

Note that as of September 2017, the CA/Browser Forum Baseline Requirements will
require all compliant CAs to process CAA records {{BR}}.

Restrictions Ineffective without CA Recognition
-----------------------------------------------

The CAA parameters specified in this specification rely on their being
recognised by the CA named by an "issue" or "issuewild" CAA property. As such,
the parameters are not an effective means of control over issuance unless a
CA's support for the parameters is established beforehand.

CAs which implement this specification SHOULD make available documentation
indicating as such, including explicit statements as to which parameters are
supported. Domains configuring CAA records for a CA MUST NOT assume that the
restrictions implied by the "account-uri" and "validation-methods" parameters
are effective in the absence of explicit indication as such from that CA.

CAs SHOULD also document whether they implement DNSSEC validation for DNS
lookups done for validation purposes, as this affects the security of the
"account-uri" and "validation-methods" parameters.

Mandatory Consistency in CA Recognition
---------------------------------------

A CA MUST ensure that its support for the "account-uri" and
"validation-methods" parameters is fully consistent for a given domain name
which a CA recognises as identifying itself in a CAA "issue" or "issuewild"
property. If a CA has multiple issuance systems (for example, an ACME-based
issuance system and a non-ACME based issuance system, or two different issuance
systems resulting from a corporate merger), it MUST ensure that all issuance
systems recognise the same parameters.

A CA which is unable to do this MAY still implement the parameters by splitting
the CA into two domain names for the purposes of CAA processing. For example, a
CA "example.com" with an ACME-based issuance system and a non-ACME-based
issuance system could recognise only "acme.example.com" for the former and
"example.com" for the latter, and then implement support for the "account-uri"
and "validation-methods" parameters for "acme.example.com" only.

A CA which is unable to ensure consistent processing of the "account-uri" or
"validation-methods" parameters for a given CA domain name as specifiable in
CAA "issue" or "issuewild" properties MUST NOT implement support for these
parameters. Failure to do so will result in an implementation of these
parameters which does not provide effective security.


URI Ambiguity
-------------

Suppose that CA X recognises "a.example.com" as identifying itself, CA Y is a
subsidiary of CA X which recognises both "a.example.com" and "b.example.com" as
identifying itself.

Suppose that both CA X and CA Y issue account URIs of the form

  "account-id:1234"

If the CA domain name in a CAA record is specified as "a.example.com" then this
could be construed as identifying account number 1234 at CA X or at CA Y. These
may be different accounts, creating ambiguity.

Thus, CAs MUST ensure that the URIs they recognise as pertaining to a specific
account of that CA are unique within the scope of all domain names which they
recognise as identifying that CA for the purpose of CAA record validation.

It is RECOMMENDED that CAs satisfy this requirement by using URIs which include
an authority:

  "https://a.example.com/account/1234"

Authorization Freshness
-----------------------

The CAA specification governs the act of issuance by a CA. In some cases, a CA
may establish authorization for an account to request certificate issuance for
a specific domain separately to the act of issuance itself. Such authorization
may occur substantially prior to a certificate issuance request. The CAA policy
expressed by a domain may have changed in the meantime, creating the risk that
a CA will issue certificates in a manner inconsistent with the presently
published CAA policy.

CAs SHOULD consider adopting practices to reduce the risk of such
circumstances. Possible countermeasures include issuing authorizations with
very limited validity periods, such as an hour, or revalidating the CAA policy
for a domain at certificate issuance time.

DNSSEC
------

Where a domain chooses to secure its nameservers using DNSSEC, the authenticity
of its DNS data can be assured, providing that a CA makes all DNS resolutions
via an appropriate, trusted DNSSEC-validating resolver. A domain can use this
property to protect itself from the threat posed by a global adversary capable
of performing man-in-the-middle attacks, which is not ordinarily mitigated by
the "domain validation" model.

In order to facilitate this, a CA validation process must either rely solely on
information obtained via DNSSEC, or meaningfully bind the other parts of the
validation transaction using material obtained via DNSSEC.

The CAA parameters described in this specification can be used to ensure that
only validation methods meeting these criteria are used. In particular, a
domain secured via DNSSEC SHOULD either:

  1. Use the "account-uri" parameter to ensure that only accounts which it
     controls are authorized to obtain certificates, or

  2. Exclusively use validation methods which rely solely on information
     obtained via DNSSEC, and use the "validation-methods" parameter to ensure
     that only such methods are used.

Use without DNSSEC
------------------

Where a domain does not secure its nameservers using DNSSEC, or one or more of
the CAs it authorizes do not perform CAA validation lookups using a trusted
DNSSEC-validating resolver, use of the "account-uri" or "validation-methods"
parameters does not confer additional security against an attacker capable of
performing a man-in-the-middle attack against all validation attempts made by a
CA, as such an attacker could simply fabricate the responses to DNS lookups for
CAA records.

In this case, the "account-uri" and "validation-methods" parameters still
provide an effective means of administrative control over issuance, except
where control over DNS is subdelegated (see below).

Restrictions Supercedable by DNS Delegation
-------------------------------------------

Because CAA records are located during validation by walking up the DNS
hierarchy until one or more records are found, the use of the "account-uri" and
"validation-methods" parameters, or any CAA policy, is not an effective way to
restrict or control issuance for subdomains of a domain, where control over
those subdomains is delegated to another party (such as via DNS delegation or
by providing limited access to manage subdomain DNS records).


IANA Considerations
===================

No IANA action is required with regard to the "account-uri" and
"validation-methods" parameters. As per the CAA specification, the parameter
namespace for the CAA "issue" and "issuewild" properties has CA-defined
semantics. This document merely specifies a RECOMMENDED semantic for parameters
of the names "account-uri" and "validation-methods".

This document requests that IANA add an entry to the ACME Challenge Types
registry of the following form:

| Label      | Identifier Type | Reference |
|:-----------|:----------------|:----------|
| vendor     | all             | RFC XXXX  |

[[ RFC EDITOR: Please replace XXXX above with the RFC number assigned to this
document ]]

--- back

Examples
========

The following shows an example DNS zone file fragment which nominates two
account URIs as authorized to issue certificates for the domain "example.com".
Issuance is restricted to the CA "example.net".

    example.com. IN CAA 0 issue "example.net; \
      account-uri=https://example.net/account/1234"
    example.com. IN CAA 0 issue "example.net; \
      account-uri=https://example.net/account/2345"

The following shows a zone file fragment which restricts the ACME methods which
can be used; only ACME methods "dns-01" and "xyz-01" can be used.

    example.com. IN CAA 0 issue "example.net; \
      validation-methods=dns-01,xyz-01"

The following shows an equivalent way of expressing the same restriction:

    example.com. IN CAA 0 issue "example.net; validation-methods=dns-01"
    example.com. IN CAA 0 issue "example.net; validation-methods=xyz-01"

The following shows a zone file fragment in which one account can be used to
issue with the "dns-01" method and one account can be used to issue with the
"http-01" method.

    example.com. IN CAA 0 issue "example.net; \
      account-uri=https://example.net/account/1234; \
      validation-methods=dns-01"
    example.com. IN CAA 0 issue "example.net; \
      account-uri=https://example.net/account/2345; \
      validation-methods=http-01"

The following shows a zone file fragment in which ACME validation can only be
used with the  challenge type "dns-01", but any non-ACME method can be used.

    example.com. IN CAA 0 issue "example.net; \
      validation-methods=dns-01,non-acme"

The following shows a zone file fragment in which only ACME method "dns-01" can
be used, as well as the use of a non-ACME method specified by the CA/Browser
Forum.

    example.com. IN CAA 0 issue "example.net; \
      validation-methods=dns-01,cabf-br-domain-authorization-document"

